Our solution: Stopping the spread of fear and ignorance of emergency events by providing curated information based on the public opinion on similar international events-

Problem: As we advance into the future, unprecedented problems such as the Coronavirus could occur. People react to these major issues differently, they might panic, be nonchalant, or even be unaware of the problems. Each of these reactions lead to its unique problems. For example, panicking about the coronavirus could lead to over buying of necessities. SCDF could play a part in mitigating the negative impacts of such issues, with an upstream approach of educating the communities and tactfully advising the community on the actions they should take, based on the way they are reacting to the issues. This will allow SCDF to prevent the escalation of certain situations.

Our way to deal with this problem is to measure the level of awareness and preparedness of the population and formulate target measures to deal with the problem. 

We do so by gathering the public responses to current issues worldwide including those which have yet happened in Singapore (Covid, Terrorism, BLM…) through social media platforms such as Twitter. We would filter out non-local data so that our solution can better adpapt to local situation and directly address local issues. With the data collected, we would apply Natural Language Understanding for sentiment and emotion analysis to evaluate how concerned and well-prepared local residents are. This helps us figure out the public opinion towards a particular event. Based on the result from sentiment and emotion analysis, we would categorised the public into five different levels of panic (over-concerned, concerned, unaware, ignorant and nonchalant). Such insights could be useful to SCDF for the strategy making process. 

The results of sentiment and emotion analysis can be also used to curate the responses of the chatbot. We train our chatbot with the capability of giving targeted responses to the public on current issues. Whenever a user approaches the chatbot, the text he/she sends would be analysed by Watson Assistant using Natural Language Understanding and machine learning to extract entities and intents of the user question. Based on the analysis, this user would be categorised and chatbot would provide targeted responses accordingly. We noticed that there is already a developed chatbot feature on SCDF website and we think it would be beneficial to add such features to the exsiting chatbot.   

These activities are able to meet the needs of the specific groups and also acts as an *upstream solution* to curb and stop problems before they even arise.

